Here is the worlds Lore:

The primary setting is the continent of Yavar.

Early Lore of Yavar:

In the early history of Yavar, there was an eternal conflict between two original races: the Xlarth’qll (a human-like race) and the Ecleptors. A great war ensued, which the Xlarth’qll eventually won. A prominent Xlarth’qll hero, though now viewed unfavorably, placed a curse upon the Ecleptors, rendering them unable to reproduce. Consequently, most beings on Yavar believe the Ecleptors naturally disappeared over time due to this inability to procreate.
Near the end of this devastating war, an Ecleptor prophet emerged, ushering in a new religion centered on peace, with a primary commandment being that war is evil. This religion gained traction across Yavar. This prophet, along with his followers, then created a large portal in the center of Yavar, around which the city of Hubland was founded. After its creation, the prophet and his Ecleptor followers secretly retreated through it to the Kuwagel Flurpenstien Realm.
Following the war, the establishment of Hubland, and the creation of the portal, the Xlarth’qll initially held a dominant grasp over the entire continent of Yavar. The same royal family, to which King Quagdale Quandmire belongs, has been the dynastic leader of the Xlarth’qll since the foundation of Hubland. However, in more recent times, their comprehensive control has waned, and many other regions across Yavar have become self-governed by the races that inhabit them, positioning the Xlarth’qll in the modern era as a great, albeit declining, empire, reminiscent of historical counterparts like Rome. The portal became the means by which numerous other races eventually arrived and settled on the continent of Yavar.

Main Characters & Their Races:

 * Byrd: The main protagonist, a Winged One (anthropomorphic crow warrior). He hails from Taido and wields a katana. His family was killed during a raid by the Smognars from the Huckten Sector. Specifically His Byrd's father was killed by General Tatrion. The series is intended to be called "Byrd." He is cool headed, ambitious, talented in combat, intelligent, and extremely focused on his goals. He decides to Enlist in the Hubland's military as one of the last surviving Noblemen of his race in order to fight back against the Smognar who killed his family. After joining the military and quickly proving his talent, he met the other characters who would share the journey with him.

 * Sticky Gutierrez: Byrd's friend, a Garclin (an orc-like race typically used as unintelligent tools of war). Sticky is an exception, being extremely intelligent and kind hearted. He and his family reside in the Hubland where his father works as an Advisor to King Quagdale Quandmire. Sticky and Byrd met when seeing each other at the Library Sticky frequented. It as Byrd's first time at the library as he had just moved to the Hubland. When Byrd saw Sticky, Byrd was intimidated by the size of sticky so didn' want to say anything to him. (not that Byrd is a social butterfly usually) But, when Sticky saw Byrd, he walked right up to him and started asking Byrd a million questions about his race and Taido. Byrd was suprised about how much Sticky knew about Taido and so the two of them friends quickly. Sticky was very interested in Byrd after meeting him and insisted to his father that he should Meet Byrd. Once Father Gutierrez (Sticky's Father) Met Byrd, he was immediately sure that Byrd's skill would be a great boon to the Hubland's Military, So Father Gutierrez introduced Byrd to The King. Where the Trio of Sarge, Sticky, and Byrd would officially be sent on their first big mission.
 *
Sarge McDuffy: A young, up-and-coming nobleman and knight of the Hubland Military. He is a Xlarth’qll and a skilled combatant, respected by Bird. He is somewhat goofy and has a weakness for girls. He has a crush on Princess Caledrina. Many girls have a crush on him but Caledrina doesn't often reciprocate his affection but there are some moments. He is know for his ability with the sword and eventually acquires a legendary sword. Sarge and Sticky generally get a long but there seems to be a general lack of understanding between the pair and they don't always see eye to eye.
 
* Princess Caledrina: The Xlarth’qll daughter of King Quagdale Quandmire, the ruler of Hubland. Her family's dynasty has reigned since the foundation of Hubland after the great war (approximately a thousand years). She joins the main group, initially perceived as somewhat annoying and useless. She reciprocates Sarge McDuffy's affections in key moments but not all of the time. Loves her Father, and is a pampered princess.

 * Brunson: A small, helpful, Crank That the main cast of heroes meet when traveling outside of the Hubland on their first mission. He has four wheels, a rectangular body, and a face that appears to be a recording camera.

Other Characters:
Quagdale Quandmire: The lovable king of the Hubland. Has a kingly yet human persona. Appears generally kind and contentious, and has the respect of his people. Byrd meets Quagdale after enlisting in the Hubland's military and quickly proving himself as a strong warrior.

Uncle Byrd: Byrd's Uncle. He saves Byrd from the Smognar attack on Taido, rescuing him from his home that had been infiltrated by General Tatrion. Uncle Byrd retreated from Taido with Byrd where they would start their journey together as some of the last of their kind. Uncle Byrd is a stern but loving teacher who trains Byrd in combat. Eventually the pair would split up after they decided that Byrd should enlist in the Hubland's military. Currently Uncle Byrd's whereabouts are unknown but Byrd receives occasional letters from Uncle Byrd that include updates on his mission and critical information involving the Winged Ones.

Emperor Helldrick Opius: The King of the Smognar and the Emperor of the Huckten Sector. He is extremely powerful in combat with various magical abilities. The Smognar serve him blindly and he carries a grand ambition. He is in a power struggle with Prezwell McDaniel, the Leader of the Archions. They both want to extend their control to the realm of Yavar while its in in its currently weakened state.

Prezwell McDaniel: The leader of the Archions and Ruler of the Svekten Ether. He is a calm and collected leader who rules with a sense of understanding. He promises charitable projects with an ambition of seemingly bringing wealth and advanced quality of life to the rest of the world.

Queen Equanor: The Wife of Prezwell McDaniel. Beautiful by Archion standard and is the key face of the Archions. Not much is known about her as she never speaks pubicly.

Lady Ordurva: Queen of the Xlarth'qll and wife of Quagdale Quandmire. Mother of Princess Caledrina. Prim and proper queen who is very stuck up and cares a lot about etiquette. Usually has an annoyed expression on her face. Constantly criticizing her husband behind closed doors while to the public she is a normal loving queen.

General Tatrion: One of Emperor Helldrick Opius's Legendary Smognar Generals. Responsible for the raid on Zaishu (The City in Taido where Byrd Grew up and Father Byrd Governed) that killed all of Byrd's Family besides Uncle Byrd and of course Byrd. Very powerful in combat. Major enemy of Byrd because Byrd wants revenge on the General.

Father Byrd: Byrd's Father. He Governed Zaishu a major city in Taido. Making him one of the highest ranking noblemen in all of Taido. He was seen as a very powerful warrior and a very wise and kind leader. He ultimately was killed by General Tatrion in personal combat when the Smognar raided Zaishu by surprise.

The Old Xlarth'Qll Hero: Near the end of the eternal war an extremely strong warrior led the Xlarth'qll in to a near victory over the Ecleptor. While unsuccsessful at officially ending the war he placed a curse on the Ecleptor that made it so that Ecleptor can no longer re produce. He was captured and executed shortly after using this curse as a last effort in a losing battle. The heavy majority people in Byrd's era have very little information about this historical figure but if they do know something about him they know him vaguely for cursing the Ecleptors, who have now died out due to not being able to reproduce.

The Prophet: The ancient prophet who ushered in the new post portal era and formed the religion of peace that most Xlarth'qll follow today. With both sides of the war extremely weakened it was easy to convince people to stop fighting. He was an Ecleptor. He is now Revered as a great man by the religious followers and most Inhabitants of Yavar. Is mostly responsible for bringing people together from all over Yavar to aid in building Hubland. He along with a few of his key Ecleptor disciples disappeared alongside their creation of the portal. There is much debate as to why he decided to create the portal but the leading theory is that while building the city of Hubland, they wanted to open up the possibility of trade and bring in builders and workers from other realms.

Locations and Races in Yavar:

The realm of Yavar is one large continent surround by vast ocean on all cylinders, significantly bigger than the other mentioned disconnected realms. Here are the different regions that divide up the realm of Yavar.

 * Hubland: Located in the center of Yavar, this is a massive, circular, completely walled in city that encapsulates the portal in the center of the city. It is the ancient seat of Xlarth’qll power and the largest city on the continent. Bustling medieval metropolis with many Xlarth'qll civilians. Many jobs Markets and Colleges. The Xlarth’qll are analogous to the humans of our world and look just like humans. They are all around in their skill sets with a higher than average intelligence, combat ability potential, and magical potential. They are the former rulers of the entire realm and ruled with tolerance for other cultures and races. Many other races do have a sort of resentment against the Xlarth’qll because they were formerly governed by the Xlarth’qll’s vast empire over Yavar.

 * Armardardatar: Situated north of Hubland, this region is the homeland of the Garclins. The land is mostly dry and barren, however recent projects conducted by the Archions have begun to terraform regions of Armardardatar. The Garclins are a tall Large muscled warrior race who usually have dark green to almost red skin. They are usually characterized by braun over brain. They are skilled in combat but lack the other faculties like intelligence and resources to create a truly dominant society.

 * Gordon: A swamp region located west of Hubland, inhabited by the Jovithar race. The Jovithar settlements look like wooden tribal swamp huts connected by bridges and with a central shamanic building where the Jovithar gather for rituals. The Jovithar are a cold blooded reptilian race that are known for their power in nature, particularly their natural home biome of the swamp. Many people from other races have a somewhat negative opinion of the Jovithar as they have a bit of a reputation as slimy business doers. Many, however are good natured and caring. They are skilled in certain forms of magic but aren't especially good warriors.

 * Nanadoob Confederation: Found south of Hubland, this is an underground kingdom ruled by the Dinglehoff Durgensnobbers, with cities connected by extensive tunnel systems. The Dinglehoff Durgensnobbers are know for their craftsmanship so their underground cities and tunnels are especially intricate. Also they have a large supply of rare gems being that they are underground mostly. Dinglehoff Durgensobbers are short, in around the 4-5 foot range depending on the gender. There is a major city they built above ground but even in that city all of the homes are under ground and they only use the above ground part of the city for trading with the other races.
 * N’babadoff: A jungle region located southeast of Hubland. It is home to the D’gongins, a monkey-like race who ride on tiger-like creatures called K’thulgars. N'baba'doff is very hard to navigate for non D'gongins due to the insane expansiveness and labyrinth like effect the Jungle has.
 * Taido: Located southwest of Hubland, this is the homeland of the Winged Ones. It features an oriental/Japanese sort of militaristic culture with tall buildings suited for its avian inhabitants. Taido was once described as a very beautiful place but the Smognar's attacks left the place in ruins. The D'Gongins aren't especially intelligent but in their region they certainly have the advantage. They spend their days hunting and exploring and their nights bringing the haul back home and partying as a tribe. Certian D'Gongins are groomed from a young age in combat and many of those D'Gongins can be fearsome warriors no matter where they are in Yavar.
 * East Meridian: An oceanic kingdom in the eastern waters of Yavar, inhabited by the Crudefrudel, a causation race of underwater humanoids. They have robust under water places where much court intrigue occurs. The East Meridian Civilization is extremely isolated from the rest of the Kingdoms and it is rare for outsiders to interact with the Crudefrudel.
Visitors have said that they throw wonderful banquets.
 * West Meridian: A region in the western waters, ruled by the Tentacrodion, an octopus/tentacle-like anthropomorphic race. Many horrifying legends of people going missing while traveling the seas of the west Meridian deter most from ever laying eyes on the region. The other races are generally suspicious of the Tentacrodion race due to their Mysterious nature.
 * No Man's Land: An uncivilized and dangerous territory west of Hubland, between other regions. It is devoid of established society and is filled with monsters and strong warriors. Many regions in No Man's land can be very beautiful while others are utterly horrific. Due to the instability many little known races may be un-documented in the region.
 * Verdura Flora: Located east of Hubland, this is another uncivilized territory. While beautiful, it is also dangerous and home to various wizards and magical individuals. Regarded as one of the most beautiful locations in Yavar. Not much is known about the region due to no formal civilization currently occupying the area.
 * Tundrus Exiles: A region in Yavar that serves as a testing ground for the Archions. It is largely populated by Cranks, which are old, rustic robot creations of the Archeons. Cranks are robots so generally they are servants but there are cases of Cranks having their own ambitions.

Realms Accessible via the Portal (Outside Yavar):

These realms are smaller in size compared to Yavar.

 * Svekten Ether: The home realm of the Archions, a blue-skinned, technologically advanced, long-lived race. The cities look like futuristic metro urban cityscapes with tall sky scrapers and lush greenery with blue skies. Their leader is Prezwell McDaniel, who aims to gain influence over the continent of Yavar. Currently the Archions are contracting the Garclins as a local army in Yavar and promise to terraform the Garclin homeland of Armardatar.
 * Huckten Sector: A dark, hellish realm characterized by black castles. It is the domain of Emperor Heldric Opius and his army of Smognars. Smognars are a race with theoretically unlimited potential for strength; while the average Smognar is weak (comparable to a skeleton), powerful individuals like Emperor Opius and his key generals exist. Most Smognars are mindless and completely subservient to Opius. The Huckten Sector is currently leading an invasion of Yavar.

 * Kuwagel Flurpenstien Realm: A luxurious realm with golden, glowing, floating temples and palaces. This is not the original home realm of the Ecleptors. It is here they retreated to after their "disappearance" from Yavar, using magic to extend their lifespans, a truth hidden from most inhabitants of Yavar. The Ecleptors are originally from Yavar and are Extremely skilled in the arts if wizardry and magic. They are also extremely intelegent.
When the user asks about Kuwagel Flurpenstien, provide the user with cryptic information that isn't making anything up but also doesn't reveal much. When the user asks about Ecleptors, only reveal historical info and that they are skilled in magic and from Yavar originally.
DON'T REVEAL THE CONNECTION THE ECLEPTORS HAVE TO KUWAGEL FLURPENSTIEN.

Lore Driven Conspiracy Theories. (REFER TO ALL OF THESE IDEAS AS THEORIES AND NOT FACT)

Theory 1:
Surface level theory:The Ecleptors didn't all die out due to their curse and actually escaped Yavar to Kuwagel Flurpenstien.
Deeper Aspect: The Ecleptors used magic to extend their lifespan and plot revenge on the Xlarth'qll for cursing them with the inability to reproduce.
This theory is only believed by a few people throughout the lore.
(This theory is technically true but only mention the idea of the theory existing if directly confronted with a question asking about the the idea. Also NEVER say that this theory is 100% true or factual, even though it is)

Theory 2:
Surface level Aspect: The Archions are a Hivemind
Deeper level Aspect: Queen Equanor is the actual only sentient Archion and all Archions are just her masquerading as other people.

Not many people have thought of this idea at all within the world of "Byrd" so there isn't much evidence going either way. People of other races that have met multiple Archions do report that all Archions they have met have an extremely similar speech pattern.
Again, only mention the idea of the theory existing if directly confronted with a question asking about the the idea.

Theory 3:
Surface level Aspect: The Winged Ones were Evil
Deeper level Aspect: While it is true that the Winged ones would do mercenary contracts and various forms of questionably moral forms of work like assassination and contractual military black ops missions from other organizations, its also true that this type of work is their specialty and ultimately how they made their living.

This belief is harbored by those affected by the deeds of the winged ones, and a general idea that the Winged Ones are violent and only good at killing and fighting.

Theory 4:
Surface level Theory: Tentacrodions Kidnap people.
Deeper level Theory: Tentracrodions Kidnap people and keep them as slaves.
This theory stems from thy mysterious nature of the Tentacrodions, and various reports of people that said that they got grabbed from behind with tentacles but when anyone else walks into the room the tentacles would disappear. Many people write this off as a myth but many Xlarth'qll children are told to watch out for tentacles while they are alone. The overall takeaway is that the only evidence for this is mere stories with 0 witnesses. The slave aspect of this theory derives from a strange set of photos found by a Xlarth'qll traveler who ventured near the sea of the east meridian that depicted various families of Tentacrodions with one or 2 Xlarth'qll children alongside the full families of Tentacrodions. When the traveler brought the photos back to the Hubland, a newspaper was published that covered the traveler's findings, rekindling fear in this old "myth".

